So I said we'd come back to
that SE thing with the keyboard,
screen, and the servers,
the computer within a computer.
What's that there fore=?
That's the support
element or the SE.
In order to get the mainframe
all configured and
ready to boot up
the way we want it to and
connected everything
we needed to talk to,
that takes a little
bit of a setup,
and you do that setup
through the support element.
There's two SE's in there,
and that's just in case
one of them fails.
No one wants to be locked
out of their system.
Now that's all cool,
but imagine if every time
we needed to do something,
you had to walk over to
the data center, badge in,
hang out on the raised floor
where it's all loud,
and cold, and dark, and stuff,
open the door, slide out the SE,
and all that, just to type
out a single command.
Luckily, in addition to the SE's,
mainframes have this concept of
the HMC or the hardware
management console,
and these do four things.
One, they let you access
the SE's Functions remotely,
so you don't have to
walk out there anymore.
Two, you can add multiple
mainframes to a single HMC,
a 100 of them in fact.
So you can manage a whole bunch
of mainframes from
one HMC and that is pretty handy.
You can also add a single
mainframe to multiple HMC's,
32 of them in fact.
So if you have one system
that's shared by
multiple departments,
they can all get HMC access.
Four, you can connect
to the HMC remotely.
So while the SE is attached to
the system and the HMC is
running somewhere else,
you can also connect remotely
as long as you have
the correct network access.
Now for the remainder
of this session,
I'm just going to be
saying HMC because
that's typically how someone
accesses those functions.
But know that pretty much
anything I can do from the HMC,
I can do from the SE as well.
It's just a whole lot
easier just to say HMC.
So why would we need
that kind of access?
Well, the most common
thing people
use an HMC for is to stop,
start, create, and
modify our pars.
Need to add another couple
processors to an L part,
you do that from the HMC.
When it changed the way
a network card is configured,
you do that for the HMC.
Let's say I'm having problems
with the system and I want to get
some data that might help me
with troubleshooting, guess what?
HMC. What do I see when
I login to an HMC?
Well, I can take a look at
a particular physical machine
that's this view right here.
See you got the status
is operating,
It's going to machine
type, model number,
It's also got a serial number,
It's also got
this name over here,
so I can make sure it's
the system that I want
to be talking to.
If I go deeper, I can
see all the L parts,
those are the partitions
right there for that system.
Looks like some of them are up,
some of them are down.
That's all right.
In this last tab over
here that's the topology,
that shows me how
everything is connected.
You can see there's lots of
stuff going on over here.
Another good use
of the HMC is just
telling at a glance how
my systems are doing.
So I can see right here there's
a couple of exceptions.
An exception is an unacceptable
status and it could be
a problem with lpar or
any other objects like
a network or a crypto card.
These need to be
checked out right away.
There's also a number
of hardware messages.
Now, a hardware message
is just when
some components saw something
and at once you
don't know about it,
but it's not currently stopping
anything from working,
it's just letting you now.
For example, if a fiber cable
got disconnected and
then reconnected,
that would result in
a hardware message.
Same thing if an lpar
didn't shut down
correctly or HMC somewhere
lost connectivity,
that would result in
a hardware message.
So what gets stored on the SC?
Well, it's got code that's going
to get loaded onto the mainframe,
that's called Licensed
Internal Code or LIC.
Yeah. Really. We've got
logging and problem
determination Functions
which help in debugging issues,
hardware systems definitions
which basically tell
the mainframe how to get
started up when it
first fluids up.
Then there's the IOCDS which will
definitely be talking
about later on.
That tells the mainframe
how to configure
all of its IO and it's L pars.
There's also a battery
operated clock that
it uses a synchronized
time across all of
the components and
Ethernet adapters
because of course everything in
the mainframe
environment generally is
connected to other components,
so we need that.
Lastly, you might be thinking,
so if anyone could
log into the HMC,
they could probably mess up
a whole bunch of
stuff accidentally.
Well, which is why there are
several accounts set
up by default on
the typical HMC and
most people set up even
more to partition access off
to those who really need it.
Just because you have
access to some features,
doesn't mean you have
access to everything.
There's specific roles on
the HMC, roles like operator,
and Advanced operator,
Systems programmer,
access Administrator, and
service representative.
Each one of these roles
has a specific reason
for needing specific access
to the system,
so it's not an all or
nothing kind of thing.
That's the SE and the HMC,
the computers within
your computer,
and within those computers,
there's actually no there's not.
That's it. It's
just the SE and the HMC.